CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Cocobot

We welcome contributions to the Cocobot Discord bot! This guide will help you get started with contributing to the project.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Development Setup](#development-setup)
- [Code Style](#code-style)
- [Submitting Changes](#submitting-changes)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Bug Reports](#bug-reports)
- [Feature Requests](#feature-requests)
- [Community](#community)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- Git
- A Discord account and developer application
- Basic knowledge of Python and Discord bots

### Fork and Clone

1. Fork the repository on GitLab
2. Clone your fork locally:
```bash
git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/cocobot.git
cd cocobot
```

3. Add the original repository as upstream:
```bash
git remote add upstream https://gitlab.com/thailand-discord/bots/cocobot.git
```

## Development Setup

### 1. Set up the Environment

```bash
# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# Activate it
# On Windows:
venv\Scripts\activate
# On macOS/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Configure Environment

```bash
# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit the file with your configuration
# You'll need Discord bot token and API keys for testing
```

### 3. Run Tests

```bash
# Run the test suite
pytest tests/

# Run with coverage
pytest tests/ --cov=cogs --cov=utils --cov-report=html
```

### 4. Run the Bot

```bash
python bot.py
```

## Code Style

We follow Python's PEP 8 style guide with some additional conventions:

### Formatting

- Use Black for code formatting: `black .`
- Maximum line length: 88 characters
- Use f-strings for string formatting
- Prefer type hints where appropriate

### Naming Conventions

- **Variables and functions**: `snake_case`
- **Classes**: `PascalCase`
- **Constants**: `UPPER_SNAKE_CASE`
- **Private methods**: `_leading_underscore`
- **Special methods**: `__dunder_methods__`

### Documentation

- Use docstrings for all public functions and classes
- Follow Google-style docstring format
- Include type hints in function signatures
- Add inline comments for complex logic

```python
def process_weather_data(location: str) -> WeatherData:
    """Process weather data for a given location.
    
    Args:
        location: The location to get weather data for.
        
    Returns:
        WeatherData object with processed weather information.
        
    Raises:
        APIError: If the weather API request fails.
    """
    # Implementation here
```

## Submitting Changes

### 1. Create a Branch

```bash
# Create a new branch for your feature
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name

# Or for bug fixes
git checkout -b fix/issue-description
```

### 2. Make Your Changes

- Follow the existing code style
- Add tests for new functionality
- Update documentation as needed
- Keep commits focused and atomic

### 3. Commit Your Changes

```bash
# Stage your changes
git add .

# Commit with a clear message
git commit -m "feat: add new weather command feature"

# Use conventional commit messages:
# feat: new feature
# fix: bug fix
# docs: documentation changes
# style: formatting changes
# refactor: code refactoring
# test: test changes
# chore: maintenance tasks
```

### 4. Push and Create Merge Request

```bash
# Push to your fork
git push origin feature/your-feature-name

# Create a merge request on GitLab
# Target the main branch from the original repository
```

## Testing

### Writing Tests

- Place tests in the `tests/` directory
- Name test files as `test_*.py`
- Use pytest conventions
- Test both positive and negative cases

### Test Structure

```python
import pytest
from unittest.mock import AsyncMock, patch
from cogs.weather import WeatherCog

class TestWeatherCog:
    def setup_method(self):
        """Set up test fixtures."""
        self.bot = AsyncMock()
        self.cog = WeatherCog(self.bot)
    
    async def test_weather_command_success(self):
        """Test successful weather command."""
        # Test implementation
        pass
    
    async def test_weather_command_invalid_location(self):
        """Test weather command with invalid location."""
        # Test implementation
        pass
```

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest

# Run specific test file
pytest tests/test_weather.py

# Run with verbose output
pytest -v

# Run with coverage
pytest --cov=cogs --cov=utils --cov-report=html
```

### Test Coverage

- Aim for >80% code coverage
- Focus on critical paths and edge cases
- Mock external API calls
- Test error conditions

## Bug Reports

### Before Reporting

1. Check existing issues for duplicates
2. Try the latest version of the bot
3. Check if the issue is environment-specific

### Reporting a Bug

1. Use the issue template in GitLab
2. Provide clear and concise description
3. Include steps to reproduce
4. Add environment information
5. Include relevant logs or screenshots

### Bug Report Template

```markdown
**Bug Description**
A clear and concise description of the bug.

**Steps to Reproduce**
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected Behavior**
A clear description of what you expected to happen.

**Actual Behavior**
A clear description of what actually happened.

**Environment**
- OS: [e.g. Windows 10, macOS 11.0, Ubuntu 20.04]
- Python version: [e.g. 3.9.0]
- Bot version: [e.g. 2.3.0]

**Additional Context**
Add any other context about the problem here.
```

## Feature Requests

### Requesting Features

1. Check if the feature already exists
2. Look for similar feature requests
3. Use the feature request template

### Feature Request Template

```markdown
**Feature Description**
A clear and concise description of the feature you'd like to add.

**Use Case**
Describe why this feature would be useful and how you would use it.

**Proposed Solution**
If you have ideas on how to implement this feature, describe them here.

**Alternatives Considered**
Describe any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

**Additional Context**
Add any other context or screenshots about the feature request here.
```

## Development Guidelines

### Adding New Commands

1. Create a new cog or add to an existing one
2. Use discord.py's slash commands (`@app_commands.command`)
3. Include proper error handling
4. Add comprehensive tests
5. Update documentation

### Adding Dependencies

1. Add to `requirements.txt`
2. Update the import statements
3. Document the new dependency
4. Ensure it's compatible with existing code

### Database Changes

1. Create migration scripts if needed
2. Update the database models
3. Add tests for database operations
4. Document the schema changes

## Code Review Process

### What We Look For

- Code follows style guidelines
- Tests are comprehensive
- Documentation is updated
- No breaking changes without discussion
- Security considerations are addressed

### Review Guidelines

- Be constructive and respectful
- Focus on the code, not the person
- Provide specific suggestions
- Ask questions if something is unclear
- Acknowledge good work

## Community

### Getting Help

- Join our Discord server
- Ask questions in the appropriate channels
- Check the documentation first
- Search existing issues

### Communication

- Be respectful and inclusive
- Help others when you can
- Share knowledge and experiences
- Follow the code of conduct

## Recognition

Contributors are recognized in several ways:

- Contributor list in README
- Changelog mentions for significant contributions
- Special roles in Discord community
- Opportunities for maintainership

## License

By contributing to this project, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.

## Questions?

If you have questions about contributing, feel free to:

- Create an issue with the "question" label
- Ask in our Discord server
- Contact the maintainers directly

Thank you for contributing to Cocobot! 🥥

Commit message:

refactor: clean up redundant comments, improve API config, and remove deprecated keys

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to cocobot

We welcome contributions to the **cocobot Discord bot**! This way-too-long guide will help you get started contributing to the project.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Development Setup](#development-setup)
- [Code Style](#code-style)
- [Submitting Changes](#submitting-changes)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Bug Reports](#bug-reports)
- [Feature Requests](#feature-requests)
- [Community](#community)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- Git
- A Discord account and developer application
- Basic knowledge of Python and Discord bots
- API keys listed in `.env.example`

### Fork and Clone

1. Fork the repository on GitLab
2. Clone your fork locally:
```bash
git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/cocobot.git
cd cocobot
```

3. Add the original repository as upstream:
```bash
git remote add upstream https://gitlab.com/thailand-discord/bots/cocobot.git
```

## Development Setup

### 1. Set up the Environment

```bash
# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# Activate it
# On Windows:
venv\Scripts\activate
# On macOS/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Configure Environment

```bash
# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit the file with your configuration
# You'll need Discord bot token and API keys for testing
```

### 3. Run Tests

```bash
# Run the test suite
pytest tests/
```

### 4. Run the Bot

```bash
python bot.py
```

## Code Style

We follow Python's PEP 8 style guide with some additional conventions:

### Formatting

- Use Black for code formatting: `black .`
- Maximum line length: 120 characters
- Use f-strings for string formatting
- Prefer type hints where appropriate

### Naming Conventions

- **Variables and functions**: `snake_case`
- **Classes**: `PascalCase`
- **Constants**: `UPPER_SNAKE_CASE`
- **Private methods**: `_leading_underscore`
- **Special methods**: `__dunder_methods__`

### Documentation

- Use docstrings for all public functions and classes
- Follow Google-style docstring format
- Include type hints in function signatures
- Add inline comments for complex logic

```python
async def interaction_check(self, interaction: discord.Interaction) -> bool:
  """
  Checks the validity of a given interaction and stores it for later use.

  This function evaluates the provided Discord interaction and determines
  whether it is valid for the current context. If valid, it stores the
  interaction for future reference and allows it to proceed.

  Args:
      interaction (discord.Interaction): The interaction object that
          represents the user's action within the Discord server.

  Returns:
      bool: Returns True if the interaction is allowed to proceed; otherwise,
          False.
  """
```

## Submitting Changes

### 1. Create a Branch

```bash
# Create a new branch for your feature
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name

# Or for bug fixes
git checkout -b fix/issue-description
```

### 2. Make Your Changes

- Follow the existing code style
- Add tests for new functionality
- Update documentation as needed
- Keep commits focused and atomic

### 3. Commit Your Changes

```bash
# Stage your changes
git add .

# Commit with a clear message
git commit -m "feat: add new weather command feature"

# Use conventional commit messages:
# feat: new feature
# fix: bug fix
# docs: documentation changes
# style: formatting changes
# refactor: code refactoring
# test: test changes
# chore: maintenance tasks
```

### 4. Push and Create Merge Request

```bash
# Push to your fork
git push origin feature/your-feature-name

# Create a merge request on GitLab
# Target the main branch from the original repository
```

## Testing

### Writing Tests

- Place tests in the `tests/` directory
- Name test files as `test_*.py`
- Use pytest conventions
- Test both positive and negative cases

### Test Structure

```python
import pytest
from unittest.mock import AsyncMock, patch
from cogs.weather import WeatherCog

class TestWeatherCog:
    def setup_method(self):
        """Set up test fixtures."""
        self.bot = AsyncMock()
        self.cog = WeatherCog(self.bot)
    
    async def test_weather_command_success(self):
        """Test successful weather command."""
        # Test implementation
        pass
    
    async def test_weather_command_invalid_location(self):
        """Test weather command with invalid location."""
        # Test implementation
        pass
```

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest tests/

# Run specific test file
pytest tests/test_weather.py

# Run with verbose output
pytest -v
```

### Test Coverage

- Focus on critical paths and edge cases
- Mock external API calls
- Test error conditions

## Bug Reports

### Before Reporting

1. Check existing issues for duplicates
2. Try the latest version of the bot
3. Check if the issue is environment-specific

### Reporting a Bug

1. Use the issue template in GitLab
2. Provide clear and concise description
3. Include steps to reproduce
4. Add environment information
5. Include relevant logs or screenshots

### Bug Report Template

```markdown
**Bug Description**
A clear and concise description of the bug.

**Steps to Reproduce**
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected Behavior**
A clear description of what you expected to happen.

**Actual Behavior**
A clear description of what actually happened.

**Environment**
- OS: [e.g. Windows 10, macOS 11.0, Ubuntu 20.04]
- Python version: [e.g. 3.9.0]
- Bot version: [e.g. 2.3.0]

**Additional Context**
Add any other context about the problem here.
```

## Feature Requests

### Requesting Features

1. Check if the feature already exists
2. Look for similar feature requests
3. Use the feature request template

### Feature Request Template

```markdown
**Feature Description**
A clear and concise description of the feature you'd like to add.

**Use Case**
Describe why this feature would be useful and how you would use it.

**Proposed Solution**
If you have ideas on how to implement this feature, describe them here.

**Alternatives Considered**
Describe any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

**Additional Context**
Add any other context or screenshots about the feature request here.
```

## Development Guidelines

### Adding New Commands

1. Create a new cog or add to an existing one
2. Use discord.py's slash (`/`) commands (`@app_commands.command`)
3. Include proper error handling
4. Add comprehensive tests
5. Update documentation

### Adding Dependencies

1. Add to `requirements.txt`
2. Update the import statements
3. Document the new dependency
4. Ensure it's compatible with existing code

### Database Changes

1. Create migration scripts if needed
2. Update the database models
3. Add tests for database operations
4. Document the schema changes

## Code Review Process

### What We Look For

- Code follows style guidelines
- Tests are comprehensive
- Documentation is updated
- No breaking changes without discussion
- Security considerations are addressed

### Review Guidelines

- Be constructive and respectful
- Focus on the code, not the person
- Provide specific suggestions
- Ask questions if something is unclear
- Acknowledge good work

## Community

### Getting Help

- Join our Discord server
- Ask questions in the appropriate channels
- Check the documentation first
- Search existing issues

### Communication

- Be respectful and inclusive
- Help others when you can
- Share knowledge and experiences
- Follow the code of conduct

## Recognition

Contributors are recognized in several ways:

- Contributor list in `README.md`
- Changelog mentions for significant contributions
- Special roles in the Discord community
- Opportunities for maintainership

## License

By contributing to this project, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.

## Questions?

If you have questions about contributing, feel free to:

- Create an issue with the "question" label
- Ask in our Discord server
- Contact the maintainers directly

Thank you for contributing to cocobot! 🥥
